CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# So you want to contribute!

Thanks for helping out the community! We are actively looking for contributors and maintainers so you are more than welcome.

I thought I should lay out some core principles that we will follow so that this repo doesn't get too wild and lose its value.

1. **We are a CHEATSHEET above all**: all examples to be as simple as possible, easily searched, and presented for copy-and-paste.
2. **Collapsible explanations**: No more than 1-2 sentences of explanation, any more than that we put inside `details` tags.
3. **React + TypeScript ONLY**: React's ecosystem is huge, we can't possibly cover it all. This includes Redux. Would encourage people to maintain separate lists for stuff like React + Apollo Graphql, for example. Also we make no attempt to convince people to use TypeScript, we only exist to help people who have already decided to try it out.
4. **Add TypeScript Playground Links**: Whenever adding a code example longer than four lines, add a link to the TypeScript Playground with the code. Use the default compiler Playground options.

That's all I've got! Again, really happy you are thinking about helping out, who knows, the person who you might be helping is yourself in future!

## Project structure

- All content is in `/docs`
  - the `/docs/basic` is compiled into `README.md` to preserve GitHub readability via GitHub action, thanks
- `/website` consumes the `/docs` content, which is a [Docusaurus 2](https://docusaurus.io/) site, which also has [Algolia search](https://www.algolia.com/) (thanks to both teams for their support!)

The website is deployed to Netlify on swyx's personal account.

To run the docsite locally:

```bash
yarn # install deps
## make sure deps are installed in /website too
cd website && yarn start
```

example output from successful startup

```
yarn run v1.22.4
warning package.json: No license field
$ docusaurus start
Starting the development server...

✔ Client
  Compiled successfully in 9.61s

ℹ ｢wds｣: Project is running at http://localhost:3000/
ℹ ｢wds｣: webpack output is served from /
ℹ ｢wds｣: Content not from webpack is served from /Users/wanshawn/Work/react-typescript-cheatsheet/website
ℹ ｢wds｣: 404s will fallback to /index.html

✔ Client
  Compiled successfully in 116.41ms
```

Commit message:

updated CONTRIBUTING.md, made it better, precise, and emojified (#688)
* updated CONTRIBUTING.md, made it better, precise, and emojified

* Format

---------

Co-authored-by: Filip Tammergård <filip@tammergard.se>
Co-authored-by: Filip Tammergård <44197016+filiptammergard@users.noreply.github.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Let's Contribute Together! 🚀

We appreciate your interest in contributing to this project. Here are some core principles and a simplified project structure to make your contribution process more efficient and effective:

## 📋 Core Principles

1. **We're All About Cheatsheets**: Our main goal is to provide concise and easy-to-use cheatsheets. All code examples should be simple, easily searchable, and ready for copy-and-paste.

2. **Collapsible Explanations**: Keep explanations short and sweet, limited to 1-2 sentences. For more in-depth explanations, use `details` tags to provide additional context.

3. **React + TypeScript Only**: We focus on React and TypeScript. React's ecosystem is vast, so we won't cover everything. If you think there's a need, consider maintaining separate lists for specialized topics, like React + Apollo GraphQL. We also don't aim to convince people to use TypeScript; we're here to assist those who have already chosen to use it.

4. **Add TypeScript Playground Links**: For code examples longer than four lines, include a link to the TypeScript Playground. Use the default TypeScript Playground options for the best experience.

Your contributions will help countless developers, including your future self! 🙌

## 📁 Project Structure

- **Content in `/docs`**: All the content resides here.
  - The content in `/docs/basic` is compiled into `README.md` to ensure that it's easy to read on GitHub.
- **`/website` Folder**: This part consumes the content in `/docs`. It's a Docusaurus 2 site and includes Algolia search. A big thanks to both the Docusaurus and Algolia teams for their support!

The website is deployed on Netlify, under swyx's personal account.

To run the docsite locally, follow these steps:

```bash
yarn # Install dependencies
## Ensure dependencies are also installed in /website
cd website && yarn start
```

Here's an example of the expected output when the development server starts successfully:

```
yarn run v1.22.4
warning package.json: No license field
$ docusaurus start
Starting the development server...

✔ Client
  Compiled successfully in 9.61s

ℹ ｢wds｣: Project is running at http://localhost:3000/
ℹ ｢wds｣: webpack output is served from /
ℹ ｢wds｣: Content not from webpack is served from /Users/wanshawn/Work/react-typescript-cheatsheet/website
ℹ ｢wds｣: 404s will fallback to /index.html

✔ Client
  Compiled successfully in 116.41ms
```

Let's work together to enhance this resource and make it even more valuable to the developer community! 🌟👩‍💻👨‍💻
